Chaos in Cornelia
=================

Summary
-------

[Map 2](#map)

[Journey to Cornelia 3](#journey-to-cornelia)

[Cornelia Port District 4](#cornelia-port-district)

[Cornelia Downtown 5](#cornelia-downtown)

[Cornelia Castle 8](#cornelia-castle)

[Big Bridge 10](#big-bridge)

[Chaos Shrine 11](#chaos-shrine)

[Epilogue 13](#epilogue)

[Bestiary 14](#bestiary)

[Premade Characters - Warriors of Light
16](#premade-characters---warriors-of-light)

Chaos in Cornelia is a pre-prepared adventure for Game Masters. It was
originally made for the Omega Fantasy RPG. Its goal is to offer new GMs
and players a quick and easy introduction into game. This adventure uses
all official rules and content from the Final Fantasy 4^th^ Edition
rules, make sure you are familiar with it before continuing.

### Plot Summary

In this adventure the party will be tasked by the King of Cornelia with
finding his abducted daughter Princess Sarah and bringing her home
safely. The main antagonist is Garland, a powerful former knight of
Cornelia who has kidnapped the princess. In order to rescue her, the
adventurers will have to travel to the Chaos Shrine to face and defeat
Garland in battle. This plot is based on the beginning of Final Fantasy
(1987), but many things have been added to or changed from the original.

### Getting Started

The players can create their characters by following the character
creation rules of the Core Book. In the beginning the party will be
travelling to Cornelia, so every player should also think of a reason
why their character wants to go there. Every character starts with 200
XP and 200 Gil, as usual. If you do not want to create the group, you
can use the pre-generated characters in pages 16 and 17.

### Guidelines

Since this may be your first time as a GM, here are a few guidelines
that could help you:

• Regard the following content as suggestions rather than rules.
Sometimes you will want to or even have to change things up and we
encourage you to do so.

![](media/image1.png){width="3.9330708661417324in"
height="6.830708661417323in"}• Players will often come up with creative
solutions, ones that you and even we have not thought of. We encourage
this in general, but this does not mean that the players always succeed
in anything they attempt. Make clear that actions have consequences and
reckless behavior such as attacking the crew of the ship or the guards
in Cornelia could mean death.

### Map

A map of the playable area is shown below with all locations of interest
being marked. Depending on your needs, feel free to add or change things
on it.

Journey to Cornelia
-------------------

![](media/image2.png){width="3.401388888888889in"
height="1.3909722222222223in"}The adventure starts on a small transport
ship named Tiny Bronco, which is on its way to deliver cargo to
Cornelia. Below, you can see a top view of the ship. The captain has
agreed to let the player characters board the ship.

### Crew

The crew consists of only 3 members: Biggs, Wedge and Captain Cid. The
sailors are wearing light blue bandanas and shorts and orange shirts
with black stripes. While Biggs is fairly athletic, Wedge is on the
shorter and heavier side, but both are friendly towards the party. The
same cannot be said of the older captain, who usually retreats to his
cabin and prefers to be left alone.

### Day

If the adventurers are not familiar beforehand, they should introduce
each other first. Then, they can freely explore the ship and talk to the
sailors. The two tell them about recent monster and pirate attacks on
sea, which seem to have increased recently. Furthermore, they may also
tell the party about Cornelia, they know that the princess has
disappeared, but no further details. The party might also ask about Cid,
in which case the sailors tell them about his past as a former soldier.

### Night

Some time after the crew retreats to their cabins to sleep, they hear
loud noises around the ship. When they move to the deck, they notice
that several pirates have boarded the ship and the first battle begins!

### Battle!

We recommend using [one pirate](#bikkes-pirates) for each party member,
spread them on the deck as you see fit. Meanwhile, the crew of the Tiny
Bronco is out of sight, fighting other pirates that have entered the
ship below deck. If things end up not looking good for our heroes during
battle, you can have Biggs and Wedge come up to help them. Their combat
details are shown are the same as for the pirates, save for having
double HP.

### Aftermath

After the battle, the crew comes together with the party to ensure
everyone is fine and the captain thanks them for their help. He explains
that this is not the first time they have been attacked by these
pirates, who are part of Captain Bikke's crew.\
If any of the pirates is interrogated, they reveal that Bikke and the
rest of the pirate crew is raiding Cornelia's port district. Should the
players have the **Nemesis** Trait, Captain Bikke should be a known
henchmen for the Nemesis. The party may now go to sleep below deck to
fully recover their HP and MP.

### Arrival

Shortly after they wake up in the morning, the ship arrives at a
secluded harbor, minutes away from Cornelia's port district. Once there,
the crew of the Tiny Bronco starts unloading their goods and departs
shortly after. Here, the party parts ways with the crew and are now on
their own. From the harbor, they can go to the port district or directly
to downtown Cornelia.

 Cornelia Port District
-----------------------

![](media/image3.png){width="2.0305555555555554in" height="4.4625in"}The
port district is fairly small and can accommodate only a handful of
ships at most. Accordingly, there are only a few other small cargo
ships, most like the Tiny Bronco. Other sailors are loading and
unloading cargo boxes from the ships and to either store them in
warehouses or carry them directly to Cornelia. If the party ask around
to find the way to Cornelia, they are pointed to a path at the other end
of the port. They are also warned to be careful on the way of monsters
and bandits, as the palace is not paroling it anymore. Cornelia is not
very far from the port, roughly a couple of hours by foot and the way
mostly leads through grasslands and fields.

### Dyce

Other than the sailors, the party can also meet the travelling merchant
Dyce at the port. Dyce is a well built, tall man, bald with beard and
wears a dark outfit, he also has a Chocobo at his side that he travels
on. He can give the party more information on the troubles in Cornelia,
he has heard rumors about the princess being abducted and the castle
being completely in chaos. Dyce is a traveler, so there is a good chance
the party will meet him again eventually. We do not mention this in the
following, but you are free to have the party meet him at other
locations throughout this adventure (even in dangerous ones). His prices
are usually 25% higher compared to regular stores though.

### Attack on the Port

When talking with Dyce or other sailors, the party also finds out that
the port has been attacked by pirates multiple times recently. Usually,
the port is protected by Cornelia's guards, but since the dis-
appearance of the princess, the king has called all troops to the
palace. The pirates usually attack at night and if the party waits
around the port until after dark on any day, they will witness a raid.
As the party knows about their plan, they can try to take defensive
measures like setting up an ambush or traps beforehand. The attack
commences with a large pirate ship, shown below, docking the port and
pirates storm out to steal goods.

### Battle!

The party notices that it is again [Captain Bikke](#captain-bikke)'s
crew that is attacking, but this time Bikke himself is present as well.
In the ensuing fight, Bikke mostly stays in the backlines, and would
rather defend than attack. He immediately runs to his ship once he
receives any damage. Apart from him, there are also some of his men
beside him, again roughly one for each party member. As Bikke runs away
from this battle, the party might meet him again at some point in the
future.

Cornelia Downtown
-----------------

![](media/image4.png){width="3.401388888888889in"
height="2.759126202974628in"}Below you can see a map of the town of
Cornelia, but there are also some farms and smaller buildings outside
the city walls that are not shown. All buildings are marked with a
number and you can find more details about them and their inhabitants in
the accordingly numbered paragraphs.

The party arrives in Cornelia from the southern gate, where two guards
stop them as they do not recognize the adventurers. They tell the party
to stay clear of the palace and leave the town as soon as they are
finished with their business. The guards do not answer any further
questions of the party. Most of the townspeople are too scared to leave
their homes since the princess has disappeared so barely anyone is
walking around Cornelia.

### 1. Fountain

The party immediately notices the beautiful fountain which stands out in
the otherwise unremarkable town. If they inspect it closer and peek at
their reflection it the water, they only notice that they are in urgent
need of a bath. Nearby is a blue-haired cheerful young woman with a red
dress who seems to be practicing dancing moves, her name is Arylon. If
the party talks to her, she introduces herself as a dancer and ask if
the party wants to see a dance. If asked about the princess or the
palace she reveals some rumors she has heard: princess Sarah has been
kidnapped and her kidnapper is asking for a hefty ransom. Accordingly,
Cornelia and the palace are in complete chaos and the palace is locked
off to regular folk. She also reveals that there were some unsuccessful
attempts at rescuing her, so the king has become quite desperate. She
notices the weapons on the adventurers and asks if they would be
interested in helping, the king would surely listen to them and also
offer a great reward.

### 2. Inn

The Inn is one of the largest buildings in Cornelia and upon entering
the party finds themselves in a small room with a rug on the ground and
a counter at the end. A bouquet of roses stands on the counter as well
as a basket with fruits. Behind the counter stands a young woman with
dark blue hair wearing a long green dress named is Elia. To the left is
a large room with multiple beds and some minor decorations on the walls
where the guests sleep. To the right is another large room, with some
wooden chairs and tables, guests can sit down here to drink and eat.
There is usually an old drunken man sitting there named Argus and some-
times also a few guards. The party might wish to sleep in the inn. They
can also talk to Elia for information, as she overhears a lot from
visitors. She can point the party towards various people in town that
might need their help like the smith, the mages and the chapel.
Furthermore, the party can try to speak to Argus, who is usually not
very coherent and babbles stories about a great soldier named Garland
who he used to know from when he was a guard.

### 3. Smith

The inside of the shop contains a small forge and multiple weapons and
armor are being displayed. Behind the counter is an older man with brown
hair and a full beard, his name is Todo. He tells the party the store is
closed, because he cannot work due to not receiving shipments from the
port. If they want to help him, the party must talk to Dyce at Cornelia
Port, who is looking after the shipments. The shipments consist of a
large wooden box on a small wagon, which slightly slows down the party
while travelling. If they agree to escort the shipment, a bizarre
monster named [PuPu](#pupu) makes an attempt to steal the shipment!

PuPu is sitting in the trees, and tries to teleport the cargo away,
slowly making the box disappear. If the players look for him in the
trees while he is doing this, he is easy to spot, because the top of his
head is glowing. After that he is be difficult to spot: a player must
succeed on a Difficulty 80 Perception check to see him, which is reduced
to Difficulty 40 during daytime. Note that the party may fail to find
PuPu, however he will be nearby if they come around the same spot at a
later time and might even try to abduct something again. If detected,
PuPu only fights if attacked, but first he non-verbally asks for Tonics
(see Tonics Please!) and returns the stolen goods if the party complies.

If the party solves this peacefully, Todo rewards them with PuPu's
Spoils in addition to the normal rewards. The party may of course just
attack him, in this case the shipment reappears after he is defeated.
Upon successfully bringing back the shipments, Todo rewards the party
with 500 Gil. Furthermore, the smith can begin working again, but he
will be busy completing orders on backlog for some time. After the party
returns from the Chaos Shrine they may visit again to buy new equipment
or upgrade their weapons or armor.

### 4. Store

This is a general goods store, that is dominated by a large counter in
the center and heaps of various wares and items around it. Behind the
counter is a young man with dark hair and a green bandana, his name is
Guston. He is not particularly concerned about the princess, but he is
annoyed that the troubles have dampened his sales. Accordingly, he is
very accommodating towards potential customers and sells battle items,
as well as potions and other healing items. He can have pretty much have
any other item you want in his inventory in addition, if the party asks
for something specific, he probably sells it.

### 5. Chapel

The chapel is very small and cozy with few wooden banks, however it is
completely empty except for once person, father Gregory. Gregory is an
old man with a long white beard wearing a dark red hooded robe, he
speaks very slowly and quietly. He laments that nobody has been visiting
the chapel since the disappearance of the princess. Apparently, most
townspeople believe that her disappearance is some sort of divine
punishment and they are too scared to visit the chapel. The father asks
the adventurers to restore the faith of the people of Cornelia, so that
more people attend the chapel again. The party can for example convince
people by clearing up some details about Sarah's disappearance (she was
kidnapped) that many are unaware of as the palace has been very
secretive about the whole incident. The townspeople may require
Intimidation (difficulty 70), Bluff (difficulty 60) or Charisma
(difficulty 50) Challenges to be convinced. Repeated failure can attract
the distrust of the population and/or the guards. If the party manages
to convince at least any 3 people in Cornelia to attend the chapel,
Gregory is satisfied and rewards each character with 100 Gil.

### 6. The Mages

These two buildings are essentially identical, each consists of a single
large room inside with a bed and shelves and heaps of magic and alchemy
goods and books. They are inhabited by the eccentric and stubborn twin
brothers Gilles and Noah. Gilles is a Black Mage who wears a blue robe
and a pointed hat, while Noah wears a white hooded robe with red
accents. The other townspeople usually avoid the brothers, except for
when they require their services as mages. Getting annoyed by this, the
mages have decided to develop a flask, which allows them to store their
magic inside that others can use without them having to be present.
However, something went wrong during its development, causing the item
to break apart in a violent explosion, the result of which the party can
see in the back yard. Out of pride, both give the fault of the accident
to their brother and they have stopped talking to each other since. The
party can resolve the dispute by convincing the mages that they were
both at fault, they can for example achieve this as follows: First they
must repair the broken flask either through mechanical or magical means,
a Technology (Difficulty 20) or Magic (Difficulty 60) Challenge. Then
they have to study the flask as well as the recipe for creating it,
which they can get from the mages. By doing this and succeeding in a
Wisdom (Difficulty 50) Challenge, the character that can understands the
issue: The flask broke because after its creation, because both mages
each cast a spell into it, causing the flask overload as it can only
hold one spell at most. This can be demonstrated by casting only one
spell into the flask, which works fine. If the party manages to convince
the mages, they accept their wrongdoing and apologize to each other.
They gift the flask to the party as a token of gratitude and the party
may visit them in the future to buy accessories.

#### Magic Flask

Accessory. Can store one spell cast into it. The wearer can use an
action to unleash a stored spell's effect on a chosen target. A
character with **!Runic** may store the spell deflected as part of a
successful **!Runic** reaction. At the start of each day, the flask
becomes empty. If a second spell is cast into it, the flask detonates,
causing each character in the party to lose 25% of its maximum HP. The
Flask may be sold for 400 Gil.

### 7. Abandoned Building

This building has been left purposefully empty in case you may need it.
It may for example related to one of the characters backgrounds or it
may have content or characters that you want to add to the adventure. If
you have no use for it, the house is empty, and the players can ask
around the town to find out that it used to be a shop that has been
abandoned due to not being profitable.

### 8. Well

It's a well. It looks like you could climb down it, but you can't.
Really.

### 9. Castle Entrance

This entrance directly leads to Castle Cornelia and is guarded by at
least 4 guards day and night who do not let anyone pass. However, they
let the adventurers through if they tell them that they want to help
find the princess. The guards then ask them to report to the chancellor
in the upper floor for further information.

 Cornelia Castle
----------------

![](media/image5.png){width="3.401388888888889in"
height="3.564478346456693in"}A map of the ground floor is shown below,
and relevant locations are numbered according to their paragraphs. The
stairs in the center lead to the Throne Room, while entrance in the back
leads to the palace garden, which is closed off by guards. The palace is
always also full of armed guards since the kidnapping.

### 1. Queen's Room

Queen Jayne is a middle-aged women with turquoise colored hair, blue
eyes, wearing a well- made long red dress and a golden tiara. She has
been very depressed since her daughter has been kidnapped and only talks
to the party if they have won the king's trust. Once the party gets her
to talk, they can find out some things about the kid- napping, part of
which the queen has witnessed firsthand. On that night she woke up to
the noises and encountered Garland who was leaving the palace while
carrying the unconscious princess in his arms. Garland shortly
confronted her, telling her to hand over control Cornelia to him if she
wants to see her daughter alive again. Then he disappeared with Sarah
through the back entrance of the palace before the guards could arrive.
The Queen is very traumatized by this event, as she blames herself for
not being able to save her daughter that night.

### 2. Sisters' Room

This room is inhabited by Sarah's sister Alison who is a very emotional
teenager, that looks very alike to her mother. The guards at the door
tell the party that she has locked herself into her room 3 days ago and
won't open the door. If the party is very convincing (e.g. by assuring
her that they will save her sister), they might get her to open the door
and talk to the party. She cannot directly help them, but she can tell
them a lot about her sister Sarah, who she looks up to very much. She
can for example tell them about Sarah's passion for music and that her
most precious possession is her special lute, which is gone as well.
Apart from this, if the party manages to calm her down a bit, they might
have a better chance at convincing the king who is worried about Alison
as well.

### 3. Captain

The captain of the guard is a young man with long blond hair named Ian,
he is wearing a decorated heavy armor and a longsword on his back. The
party may meet him in various places around the palace where he is
wandering around. He is very reluctant to talk the party and they
immediately notice that he is missing his left arm. If the party has
convinced the king, the captain is willing to talk to them about the
mission to rescue Sarah, which was led by him. Right after Sarah
disappeared, him and 5 of his best men followed Garland and confronted
him at the Big Bridge north of Cornelia. However, Garland bested all of
them in ensuing battle and the captain was the only one to make it out
alive, albeit without his arm. He is obviously ashamed of his failure
and seems deeply disturbed and scared about Garland's power.

### 4. Treasure Room

The treasury consists of 2 rooms, the one to the left contains the
palace's gold while the right one contains various expensive items and
equipment. Both doors are guarded by two very well armed with heavy
armor, if the party has no business here, they quickly request them to
leave at once. If the party has obtained the letter from the king, they
are given the following items from the guards: 1 large Tent that fits
the entire party as well as a Tonic and 200 Gil for every party member.

### 5. Throne Room

The door to the throne room is guarded by two royal guards wielding
glaives and heavier armor than the rest. Upon stating their business,
they let the party pass through to the throne room, inside is the king
on his throne and beside him stands the chancellor. The king is a
middle-aged man with light blue eyes and brown hair with a long brown
beard, wearing a golden crown and long red robes. The chancellor is
slightly younger with dark hair, also wearing noble clothing.

While the king is be happy to see the adventurers, as he is very
desperate to find his daughter, the chancellor has a strong distrust of
the party. In the following conversation the party may try to convince
the king that they can be trusted, but the chancellor convinces him that
the party has not proven that they are good-willed and trustworthy. The
king then has an idea: he laments that Cornelia is in chaos because he
has put all his resources into finding his daughter and neglected his
people in the process. He asks the party to help the people of Cornelia
to prove that they can save his daughter, in return he promises to
provide them with travel supplies before they head off. If the party
asks for further details on the kidnapping, they do not reveal anything
until the party have won their trust.

#### Convincing the King

To convince the king, the party has to fulfil several tasks that help
the people of Cornelia, how many, exactly, depends on you as the GM.
Below is a list of tasks that may convince the king if taken care of,
you can of course add any relevant content that you have created to it
as well:

-   Help the smith to receive his shipments;

-   Resolve the dispute between the two mages;

-   Defend the port against an ambush by pirates;

-   Help the chapel regain its members;

-   Not earning the guards' distrust.

After the party manages to win the kings trust, he is convinced that
they can save his daughter and reveals further details on the
kidnapping: Sarah was kidnapped 3 weeks ago by a former knight of
Cornelia named Garland, who is regarded as the most powerful swordsman
in the entire kingdom. Garland used to be very close to the king, but
power has corrupted him, and he demanded to become the successor to the
king. When the king did not comply, Garland abducted his daughter Sarah
as ransom for control over the kingdom. Many other knights of Cornelia
have tried to save her since and even though they failed, they found out
that Garland keeps Sarah in the Chaos Shrine, north of Cornelia past the
Big Bridge. The king also keeps his promise and writes a letter that
confirms that they were officially given the task of rescuing his
daughter. This letter also allows the party to retrieve some items from
the treasury and other members of the palace might be more willing to
talk to them after they have earned the king's trust. If the players
cannot or don't want to earn the king's favor, they can bully and
threaten the Chancellor or the Queen for this information.

 Big Bridge
-----------

![](media/image6.png){width="3.4027777777777777in"
height="4.715972222222222in"}When departing from Cornelia and heading
north, the party finds themselves in the forests and grass- lands
surrounding the city. After about 4 hours of travel through the mostly
quiet nature, they arrive at the Big Bride, which is massive but also
very old and brittle. When they reach its end, they notice someone who
seems to have been awaiting them.

### Gilgamesh

Gilgamesh is not necessarily good or evil, he travels the world to find
powerful weapons to add to his collection. Garland has convinced
Gilgamesh to work for him and lets him guard the bridge from anyone who
tries to cross. In return, Garland gifted him the legendary sword
Excalibur or at least that is what Gilgamesh believes. Upon meeting the
party, Gilgamesh will recognize them as potentially worthy opponents and
draw his weapons.

### Battle!

The battle against [Gilgamesh](#gilgamesh-1) takes place at the end of
the bridge as shown on the map. His combat details are shown below,
tailored for a 4-man party, but if the party is bigger or smaller than
that you might want to adjust his HP. When Gilgamesh is reduced to 0 HP
he does not immediately suffer KO, instead he finally pulls out
Excalipor for one last attack. He tries to attack the closest party
member with it, but the sword deals no damage and immediately breaks in
half. Gilgamesh realizes that Garland has tricked him and becomes angry,
seeing no other option, he runs away (he can jump down the bridge if
necessary). As he remains alive, the party might meet Gilgamesh again
later in the adventure.

### Aftermath

![](media/image7.jpeg){width="2.6416666666666666in"
height="1.9194444444444445in"}After defeating Gilgamesh, the party can
finally cross the bridge to reach the dark forest before the Chaos
Shrine. The forest is unusually quiet and most of its trees and plants
seem to have died out. The adventurers will very likely not be able to
reach the Shrine before sunset, so they probably will need to rest the
night somewhere in the forest. **3**

 Chaos Shrine
-------------

When the party reaches the grasslands at the edge of the dark forest,
they can see the menacing Chaos Shrine in the distance. As they move
closer, they notice that the shine has been claimed by nature for the
most part, as its walls are damaged and overgrown, and the foundation
has begun to sink into the ground. An unnatural serenity surrounds the
area with no other living being in sight and the only entrance is a set
of brittle stairs that lead down into darkness. After going down the
stairs, the party arrives at the south of the map shown below and can
barely see the anything due to the lack of light sources. They notice
that the way north is blocked from rubble that is a product of the three
pillars and large rocks that have broken off from the ceiling. Upon
closer inspection, the party realizes that this blockade has been
created by someone on purpose.

### 1. Traps

Both marked locations contain a magical trap on the ground that has been
placed by Garland not only to impede intruders, but also to alert him. A
character that is actively looking for traps or taking similar
precautions can notice it by passing a Thievery (Difficulty 60)
Challenge. Otherwise, the trap explodes shortly after stepping on it,
dealing 15 physical fire damage to everyone near it.

### 2. Mimic

Inside this room are chests that once touched reveal themselves to be
vicious [Mimics](#lesser-mimic). There are three [Lesser
Mimics](#lesser-mimic) in the room for each 4 players. A character can
notice that something is wrong with the chest beforehand by passing a
Wisdom (Difficulty 75) Challenge. If they fail to do so, the Mimic
performs one action before the initiative check in the ensuing battle.

### 3. Healing Spring

![](media/image8.png){width="3.401388888888889in"
height="2.6881944444444446in"}The heavy door of this room is locked and
can be broken or lockpicked, by passing a Strength (Difficulty 60) or
Infiltration (Difficulty 40) Challenge. Inside the room, the party finds
a large chalice that stands on a stone pedestal and is filled with what
seems to be water. Upon closer inspection, a character can understand
that the liquid is of magical nature and a character that drinks it,
fully recovers his HP and MP immediately. However, the chalice itself
has no magical properties and contains only 5 portions of the healing
water.

### 4. Chests

This room contains 2 chests, one can be opened easily and contains 3
Potions and a Phoenix Down. The other one contains Sarah's Lute and can
only be lockpicked by passing an Infiltration (Difficulty 70) Challenge.
It can also be opened by with a key that Garland carries with himself,
but the chest is too robust to be broken through force.

### 5. Secret Door

This room is empty except for a large stone tablet on the left wall with
multiple different symbols on it. Upon closer inspection, the party can
understand that the symbols describe a short music piece. The wall next
to it contains a secret door which is revealed by playing the piece on
Sarah's Lute, which Sarah herself should able to perform properly
enough. Another character may try to perform the music by rolling a
Performance (Difficulty 90) challenge, but the runes warn the party that
they deactivate themselves should the performer fail. The secret door
leads into a small room with a Guard Ring on it.

### ![](media/image9.jpeg){width="3.3979166666666667in" height="4.782638888888889in"}6. Garland

At the very center of the temple, the party finally confronts Garland.
Sarah is also in this room, locked in a large cage that stands in the
corner. Garland is a tall, well-built man in full heavy armor wearing a
purple cape and carrying a sword in his hand and a two keys in his
pocket. He is very arrogant and believes that he deserves to rule
Cornelia because he is the strongest warrior in the kingdom. Garland has
studied the dark secrets of the Chaos Shrine since his arrival to
further expand his power. When meeting the party, he does not take them
seriously and sees them as just another annoyance standing in the way of
his grand plans.

### Battle!

[Garland draws his weapon to commence the fight and he also summons
multiple bats to aid him, one for each party member. During the battle,
he focuses on his positioning to pick off weaker party
members.](#garland-1)

### Aftermath

In the original story, Garland uses a magical artifact to escape the
party after being defeated and goes on to become the main antagonist. If
you want to continue the adventure in a different manner, he may also
simply die at hand of the adventurers. You can also let the players
decide his fate. After being freed from her prison (Garland's key opens
it), Sarah is understandably still very scared and traumatized. She
thanks the party for rescuing her and asks them to also find her
precious lute, which Garland has taken from her. The party can refuse
her request to quickly return to Cornelia, which Sarah will understand
but not be happy about.

**Bat Level 1**

 Epilogue
---------

After rescuing Sarah, the party must return her safely to Cornelia and
therefore, they have to travel back the long path they came from,
passing the Big Bridge on the way. The journey should be uneventful for
the most part, but you can feel free add a few surprises of your own.

### Sarah

Sarah is a fairly young princess with turquoise hair like her mother and
wears a long gold colored dress as well as a golden pendant with red
jewels. She is generally polite but also very quiet and absent, because
she is still suffering from the physical and mental scars of the
kidnapping. Sarah is not very capable of looking after herself, so she
requires the adventurers' assistance and guidance during the journey.
While travelling, she frequently asks about the state of Cornelia and
her family as she blames herself for what has happened.

### Arrival

When entering Cornelia with the princess at their side, the adventurers
are hailed by the townspeople and guards. They may be seen as heroes or
as sinister vigilantes, based on the king's trust; Accordingly, they are
recognized by everyone in the town as such from now on. The inhabitants
of the palace are surprised when meeting the party, as they had already
given up hope of ever seeing the princess again. The king of Cornelia's
reaction, either being very grateful to the adventurers or grudgingly
accepting them depends on his trust. Either way, he rewards the
characters with a banquet.

### Rewards

The king offers the party very generous rewards for rescuing his
daughter as he had promised. In the original story, the king commands
his men to rebuild an old broken bridge, that leads to another large
continent for the adventurers to explore. His gift depends on how you
want to continue the game, and should be something that greatly aids the
party and moves the plot forward. He could for example gift them a ship
and ask for them to not return or he could gift them a house in Cornelia
if the city is still going to be relevant.

In addition to any extra challenge or situation you may add, grant the
players the following XP rewards based on their traits:

-   **Monster Hunter**: 80 XP if they kill PuPu, 20 XP if they resolve
    it peacefully; 40 XP for defeating the mimics; 20 XP for defeating
    Garland and his minions

-   **Sense of Duty (Cornelia):** 80 XP if they save Sarah; 40 XP for
    repealing the pirate attack on the port district

-   **People's Hero**: 40 XP (each) for helping the smith and helping
    the mages

-   **Mercenary**: 1 XP for each 8 gil earned (either in direct gains or
    by selling items)

-   **Nemesis**: 80 XP for defeating Bikke

-   **Reputation**: 40 XP for helping the priest by bluffing or using
    charisma; 40 XP if the King trusts the party

-   **Bad Reputation**: 40 XP for helping the priest by bluffing or
    using intimidation; 80 XP if they save Sarah without the King
    trusting the party.

### Outlook

By rescuing princess Sarah and defeating Garland, the party has grown
together and developed their individual skills. Even though they still
have a lot to learn, they have proven themselves to be capable
adventurers that can stand up against the evil in the world. From here,
you can continue the adventure by building on the presented content and
creating your own locations, characters and challenges. Before
departing, the party may choose to spend some more time in Cornelia to
rest and stock up on items and equipment.

![](media/image10.png){width="1.1041666666666667in" height="1.0604166666666666in"}Bestiary
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

#### **Bikke's Pirates** 

5th level Humanoid **Minion**

Earth 12 Air 29 Fire 14 Water 18

HP 20 MP 10 ARM 03 MARM 03

Spoils: Tonic (dif 60) Initiative -- 2 die

*Cutlass:* Quick physical action, Air vs Air, dif 40, 6 damage (Cut)

*Parry:* Reaction, Air vs Air, dif 40, avoids a physical attack

**Vulnerable (Poison), Vulnerable (Shadow)**

*Bikke's pirates will do anything they can to get their hand on the
sweet loot, except throw their life away. They are more prone to running
than to fighting to the death.*

#### Captain Bikke 

16th level Humanoid **Elite**

Earth 48 Air 35 Fire 25 Water 74

HP 200 MP 45 ARM 06 MARM 18

Spoils: None Initiative -- 4 die

*Hook:* Quick physical action, Earth vs Earth, dif 40, 8 damage
(Puncture)

*Dodge:* Reaction, Air vs Earth, dif 40, avoids a physical attack

![](media/image11.png){width="1.6819444444444445in"
height="1.7833333333333334in"}*Arrow Guard:* Reaction, Air vs Air, dif
30, avoids a ranged attack

*Thunder*: Black Spell, 9 MP, Fire vs Water, dif 0, 10 damage (Thunder)

**Vulnerable (Poison), Vulnerable (Shadow)**

*Bikke is a coward who relies on his crew to do the heavy lifting. He
prefers to dodge rather than attack. He will flee from combat as soon as
he is dealt any damage. *

#### **PuPu**

11th level Elemental **Minion**

Earth 20 Air 32 Fire 45 Water 22

HP 50 MP 40 ARM 2 MARM 7

Spoils: 100 Gil, Electro Marble (dif 20)

Initiative -- 2 die

*Tonic Please*: Pupu uses his actions to ask for a Tonic. The player who
gives a Tonic or Potion spends it and roll Water vs Water, dif 30. If
successful, PuPu is satisfied and teleports away.

*Mind Blast*: Quick magical action, Fire vs Fire, dif 40, 16 damage
(Light)

*Nightsong,* Blue Spell*,* 20 MP. Fire vs Water, dif 70. If successful,
inflict the **Sleep** status on a group until the end of the next round

*Split the Pain,* Free Reaction, Earth vs Earth, dif 70. If successful,
split physical damage done between PuPu and the original attacker. Pupu
uses this each time he's hit by a physical attack.

**Light Immune, Fatal Immune, Mental Immune, Auto-Float **

![](media/image12.png){width="1.2055555555555555in"
height="1.5680555555555555in"} *PuPu is a mischievous being, who is
trying to steal the smith's cargo. He will never attack unless provoked
and will keep using Tonic Please in all actions. If the players deal any
damage to him, he will stop asking for a Tonic and will fight normally.*

#### Gilgamesh

10th level Humanoid **Common**

Earth 38 Air 35 Fire 31 Water 13

HP 120 MP 45 ARM 06 MARM 02

![](media/image13.png){width="1.663888888888889in"
height="1.9333333333333333in"}Spoils: None Initiative -- 3 die

*Gungnoir:* Quick physical action, Earth vs Earth, dif 40, 9 damage
(Puncture)

*Blade Dance:* Slow (3) physical action, Air vs Air, dif 40, 9 damage to
a group (Cut)

*Black Cleave:* Slow (2) physical action, Earth vs Air, dif 40, 6 damage
(Crush); then Air vs Earth, dif 40, 6 damage (Crush) to the same target;
If both hit, inflicts **Immobilize** until end of next turn

*Excalipor*: Reaction, auto-hits every enemy, 1 damage (Cut). Uses after
being reduced to 0 HP

**Vulnerable (Blind), Vulnerable (Sleep), Bio Resist, SoS-Strengthen
(Physical)**

*Gilgamesh is arrogant and brash. He will challenge any worthy opponent
for a duel in his quest to become even more legendary than he is. *

#### Lesser Mimic 

8th level Aberration **Common**

Earth 38 Air 11 Fire 20 Water 28

HP 40 MP 45 ARM 10 MARM 03

![](media/image14.png){width="1.5986111111111112in"
height="1.413888888888889in"}Spoils: 150 Gil (Dif 80) Initiative -- 3
die

*Bite:* Quick physical action, Earth vs Earth, dif 40, 6 damage (Cut)

*Latch:* Slow (2) physical action, Earth vs Air, dif 40, 3 damage (Cut),
turns into *Rend*

*Rend:* Quick physical action, Earth vs Earth dif 0, 9 damage (Cut),
ignore target's ARM, turns into *Latch*

*These aberrations look like chests and eat the flesh of their
unsuspecting and greedy victims. They bite viciously, attaching
themselves to their victims, then rending with their sharp teeth.*

#### Shadow Bat

7st level Beast **Minion**

Earth 20 Air 23 Fire 20 Water 12

HP 32 MP 20 ARM 02 MARM 01

Spoils: None Initiative -- 2 die

![](media/image15.png){width="1.21875in"
height="0.8541666666666666in"}*Bite:* Quick physical action, Earth vs
Air, dif 40, 6 damage (Cut)

*Arrow Guard:* Reaction, Air vs Air, dif 30, avoids a *Ranged* physical
attack

*Red Feast*: Blue Spell, 10 MP, Earth vs Air, dif 40, 6 damage
(Puncture). The Shadow Bat heals itself half of the damage dealt.

**Vulnerable (Light and Air), Shadow Absorb, Auto-Float, Blind Immune,
Mental Immune,** *Small blood-sucker bats, summoned by the power of the
Chaos Shrine. Garland can control these beasts at will, and they will
flee and scatter if Garland is defeated.*

#### Garland

12th level Humanoid **Elite**

Earth 48 Air 35 Fire 15 Water 40

HP 240 MP 45 ARM 05 MARM 5

Spoils: Shadow Staff Initiative -- 4 die

*Slash:* Quick physical action, Earth vs Earth, dif 40, 8 damage (Cut)

![](media/image16.png){width="1.1354166666666667in"
height="1.1458333333333333in"}*Shadow Strike:* As Adept, deals 12 damage
(Shadow)

*Lesser Drain: Ranged* Magical action, 5 MP, Fire vs Water, dif 0, 8
damage (Shadow), Garland heals 8 HP

*Third Eye*: As Phalanx

**Resist (Shadow), Vulnerable (Light)**

*The mastermind between the kidnapping, Garland works for mysterious and
sinister motives. What secrets does he hide?*

![](media/image17.png){width="1.2083333333333333in" height="2.0208333333333335in"}![](media/image18.png){width="1.15in" height="2.0215277777777776in"}Premade Characters - Warriors of Light
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Zest, 8th level Warrior/Defender**

  ----------- ----------- ----------- --------------
  **Stat**    **Level**   **Value**   **XP Spent**
  **Earth**   3           30          90
  **Air**     1           10          10
  **Fire**    1           10          10
  **Water**   3           30          90
  ----------- ----------- ----------- --------------

**Skills**: Strength 1 and Charisma 1.

**Traits & Quirks**: Mercenary, People\'s Hero, Monster Hunter; Straight
Arrow, Amnesia and Emphatic.

**HP** 70/70; **MP** 30/30; **ARM** 3; **MARM** 0

**Equipment**: Twilight Steel (Earth vs Earth, dif 40, 6 damage,
**Blind** Touch), Leather Plate

**Abilities**: Master of Arms \[Pommel Strike\]; Power Attack; Cover

**Actions**: !Mighty Strike (wpn, dif 70, 12 dmg), !Pommel Strike (wpn,
3 dmg) !Block, !Cover

He leads the Warriors of Light and bears the Fire Crystal. He has short
red hair and is righteous and courageous in nature. Honest,
straightforward and prone to tunnel vision, unlike the other three, he
has no memories of his past.

**Sauber, 8th level Rogue/Dervish**

  ----------- ----------- ----------- --------------
  **Stat**    **Level**   **Value**   **XP Spent**
  **Earth**   1           10          10
  **Air**     3           30          90
  **Fire**    3           30          90
  **Water**   1           10          10
  ----------- ----------- ----------- --------------

**Skills**: Infiltration 1 and Thievery 1.

**Traits & Quirks**: Mercenary, People\'s Hero, Monster Hunter;
Bottomless Pockets, Paranoid and Fast.

**HP** 42/42; **MP** 10/10; **ARM** 1; **MARM** 1

**Equipment**: Baselard (Air vs Air, dif 40, 9 damage, **Weaken Armor**
Touch), Leather Outfit

**Abilities**: Survivalist \[Treasure Hunter\]; Clinical Eye;
Ambidexterity

**Actions**: !Detect

He has long golden hair, holds the Wind Crystal and tends to keep the
rest of the party grounded in reality with his realist attitude.
Apparently a cynical worrier, in battles he tends to be a bit gung-ho
and gets in a lot of conflict with Zest.

![](media/image19.png){width="1.125in" height="1.90625in"}

**Floe, 8th level White Mage/Alchemist**

  ----------- ----------- ----------- --------------
  **Stat**    **Level**   **Value**   **XP Spent**
  **Earth**   2           20          40
  **Air**     1           10          10
  **Fire**    2           24          60
  **Water**   3           30          90
  ----------- ----------- ----------- --------------

**Skills**: Technology 1 and Performance 1.

**Traits & Quirks**: Mercenary, People\'s Hero, Monster Hunter;
Intuitive Magic (Forces), Uncommon Beauty and Naïve Idealist.

**HP** 44/44; **MP** 54/54; **ARM** 0; **MARM** 3

**Equipment**: Cypress Rod (*Ranged,* Fire vs Fire, dif 40, 4 damage),
Cotton Robe

**Abilities**: Arcane Devotion; Heavenly Magic; Quick Hands

**Spells**: *Cure* (Fire vs Water, dif 0, heals 10 HP), *Banish* (Fire
vs Water, dif 0, 10 damage \[Light\])

**Inventory:** 1x Tonic

The only female in the group of four, she has a shard of the Water
Crystal. She is a kind, gentle and motherly youth, but is apparently
scary and ferocious when angered.

![](media/image20.png){width="1.3958333333333333in" height="1.84375in"}

**Daewoo, 8th level Black Mage/Wizard**

  ----------- ----------- ----------- --------------
  **Stat**    **Level**   **Value**   **XP Spent**
  **Earth**   2           24          60
  **Air**     1           10          10
  **Fire**    3           30          90
  **Water**   2           20          40
  ----------- ----------- ----------- --------------

**Skills**: Magic 1 and Wisdom 1.

**Traits & Quirks**: Mercenary, People\'s Hero, Monster Hunter;
Intuitive Magic (Elemental), Caustic and Focused (nature).

**HP** 48/48; **MP** 44/44; **ARM** 0; **MARM** 3

**Equipment**: Oak Staff (Fire vs Water, dif 40, 9 damage), Cotton Robe

**Abilities**: Arcane Power; Elemental Magic; Transmutation; Arcane
Adept

**Spells**: *Fire* (Fire vs Water, dif 0, 15 damage \[Fire\]), *Poison*
(Fire vs Water, dif 40, 15 damage \[Bio\], Inflicts **Poison**), *Blind*
(Fire vs Water, dif 70, inflicts **Blind**)

**Inventory:** 1x Tonic

He carries the Earth Crystal and is a silent type whose every word
counts. He is a kindhearted and quiet man, who also seems to be highly
intelligent and in tune with beasts and other aspects of nature.
